Murat Doruk Güneş 2453272
Berkay Ceylan 2453041
------------------------------
ASSIGNMENT 2

The Files that have been done for Assignment 2 is choclate.h and choclate.c in the main menu you can directly try the
human vs human and human vs ai option for the choclate game. However, since our first assignment is intertwined in a way
we are using all files to compile the all assignment1 files are here as well in order to run Challenge room 2 which is
the finding mad scientist challenge. In order to try Lara vs AI similation you need to enter challenge room 2. In our
first assigment agent LARA was opeining challenge room 2 when you select the option 1 which is UCS.
To sum up:
You can directly test the  human vs human and human vs ai option
You can test the Lara vs AI similation when you select the 1 which is UCS
You can adjust the max board size from thechoclate.h HOWEVER, WE HIGHLY RECCOMMEND TO USE IT WITH SIZE 4
Because if you make 5 it will takes a lot of time for the AI to find  as our calculations it takes
approximately 3 minutes for each 5x4 and approximately few hours for 5x5 board but at the end it will calculate


------------------------------------------------------
ASSIGNMENT 1
Questions Task 1:
Assumptions: - When doing BFS, our algorithm will start by expanding by going right first. In that case this path will be
               followed: S -> C1 -> F -> E. Notice that C2 was not entered because BFS expanded C1 first.
             - We assumed that agent only works according to one search algorithm at a time. Each algorithm (UCS & BFS)
               gives a different path and solutions. To conclude, this is why we didnt used loop in the main. There is only
               one time selection for the searching algorithm in main. However, if we implemented our code so that it works
               in a loop, asking for different algorithm (UCS, BFS) each time. There is a reset visited function that resets visited
               flags of vertex nodes. In that case, we would also need to reset flags in challenge rooms.


1) Which path passes through the safe house (F)
Answer: UCS function's path passes through the safe house with  "S->F->C2->E" on the other hand BFS function's couldn't
        passes through the safe house with "S->C1->E"

2) Which algorithm (BFS or UCS) reaches the goal with fewer expansions?
Answer: BFS reaches the goal with fewer step with expansion order (S->C1->F->E) with count 4 on the other hand UCS
        reaches the goal with more step with expansion order (S->F->C1->C2->E) with count 5

3) Does passing through the safe house always lead to an optimal solution?
Answer: No, because As we can see in our assignment for example BFS expand F but in path F is not here so we easly
        understand that passing through the safe house does not guarantee an optimal solution if we are looking for the
        number of edges. Also, another example is when doing a costs depending search going the safe house cost may be
        a more higher than other going the others. To sum up we cannot say the passing through the safe house
        always guarantee an optimal solution

4) Compare the solution paths returned by BFS and UCS.
Answer: UCS returned the path (S -> F -> C2 -> E), while BFS returned the path (S -> C1 -> E). BFS finds the optimal
        path in terms of the fewest number of edges (2 steps). However, UCS finds the optimal path in terms of the
        lowest total path cost. Total cost of 278 for UCS vs. 310 for BFS)




Problem Formulation for Challenge 1:

Assumptions: 1- We assumed that we are performing graph search (no repetitive states).
             2- We assumed that prisoners do not escape while not supervised by guard(s).


1- States: (G, P, B). G stands for how many guards are on the left side.
                      P stands for how many prisoners are on the left side.
                      B stands for boat location. (B=0 means left, B=1 means right)

   States are represented by this tuple (G,P,B). Prisoners on one side always should be less than or equal to guards.


2- Initial State: (3,3,0). Three guards on the left side, three prisoners on the left side and boat is on the left side.


3- Actions: There are 5 possible actions;
         - move(1,0) means one guard moves.
         - move(2,0) means two guards move.
         - move(0,1) means one prisoner moves.
         - move(0,2) means two prisoners move.
         - move(1,1) means one prisoner & one guard moves.


4- Transition Model: - If the boat is on the left (B=0), move(g,p) subtracts those people from the left bank and moves the boat to the right.
                       The new state becomes (G-g, P-p, 1).

                     - If the boat is on the right (B=1), move(g,p) adds those people to the left bank and moves the boat to the left.
                       The new state becomes (G+g, P+p, 0).

   Assumption: These transitions only executed if condition of "Guards are not outnumbered by prisoners in any side" satisfies.


5- Goal states: (0,0,1). No guards or prisoners on the left side. All guards and prisoners are on the right side. Boat on the right side.


6- Action cost: Each move costs exactly 1. Cost is equal to boat trips.


Questions Challenge 1:
1- What makes a state invalid in this problem?
Answer: State becomes invalid if at any point Prisoner count exceeds Guard count in any sides of the river given that there is
        at least one guard in that side. If there is no Guard in a side, then prisoners can exceed guard number.
        For example: 3 guards in left side, 3 prisoners in right side. is valid because guards are not outnumbered, there are
        no guards on the prisoners' side.

2- Why must the heuristic be admissible?
Answer: Heuristic must be admissible because we don't want to overestimate in our problem. Admissible heuristic makes sure
        the algorithm finds the optimal path. If we didn't have an admissible heuristic in our problem, it may not return the
        optimal path, therefore, solving the problem in an inefficient way.

3- What happens if your heuristic overestimates?
Answer: If heuristic overestimates, A* algorithm loses the ability to find optimal path. It may skip an optimal path just
        because it looks too expensive (due to overestimated heuristic). Therefore, it may return a sub optimal solution path.



Questions Challenge 2:
1- Is Greedy Best-First Search guaranteed to find the optimal?
Answer: No, Greedy Best-First Search (GBFS) is not guaranteed to find optimal cost. It directly selects heuristic cost
        without considering path cost. Since GBFS chooses locally optimal choice, it can easily get trapped or take longer
        overall path due to blindly selecting only heuristic cost.

2-  How does the heuristic affect node expansion?
Answer: In GBFS, heuristic is only metric algorithm looks at. If heuristic is strong/accurate, then it reduces number of expanded
        nodes greatly. But if heuristic value is poor, GBFS may unnecessarily expand a lot of nodes.

3- What happens if nodes are expanded more than once?
Answer: In graph search, nodes are never expanded more than once. If we expand it more than once it will become tree search which has a danger
        of getting trapped  in an infinite loop. (especially in labyrinths with cycles).
